(laughter, applause)
MARISHA: I want mine.
TRAVIS: Do you not know who we are?
LAURA: That’s okay, we’ll stand!
MARISHA: Travis needs the end.
TALIESIN: There we are.
TRAVIS: This is my blessing. This is my curse.
(laughter)
MATT: Got to plug it in first.
LAURA: This is so official. I don’t know--
TRAVIS: Are these on?
LAURA: --feels like we’re about to have a
meeting.
(laughter)
MARISHA: I guess you guys want to share a mic?
MATT: There we go.
SAM: Hi!
AUDIENCE: Hi!
MATT: I’m not going to lie, this is impressive to
me. For a Sunday at noon panel at any convention,
this many people is a feat.
(laughter)
SAM: Welcome.
LAURA: What is happening?
MARISHA: I’m making--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Form Voltron!
(laughter)
MATT: This is the entire panel. Just watching this
happen.
(laughter)
MATT: So, hey guys!
AUDIENCE: Hi!
MATT: We are-- she likes your hair.
LAURA: I like your hair.
MATT: This is the panel.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Miming into mics and complimenting
people.
(laughter and applause)
LAURA: Did you need to get any taller?
TRAVIS: Overwatch.
MATT: (whispery ominous voice) Be careful he’s
watching. (normal voice) We are all actors. We
also are part of a online D&D game called Critical
Role--
(cheering)
MATT: Where we play Dungeons & Dragons every week
on Twitch with Geek & Sundry. That’s not what
this panel’s about!
MARISHA: I mean, it could be what it’s about. It
kind of is. We’re not going to stop it. We’d kind
of rather talk about D&D.
LAURA: No! That’s not true.
MATT: That’s not true at all.
MARISHA: I’d rather talk about D&D.
(laughter)
MARISHA: I’ll speak for myself.
MATT: The main topics of this panel will be-- the
theme of it is voiceover and animation, video
games in general. World of voiceover, our
experiences there, and your questions regarding
that bit of silliness. But, you are also free to
slip in D&D-related questions, should you feel
driven to do so. But first, let’s begin with
introductions. Let’s go ahead and talk a little
bit about ourselves and what we do, starting with
Travis Willingham!
TRAVIS: Hi, I’m Travis Willingham. I’m a Leo. I
play a goliath barbarian on Critical Role named
Grog. I’ve done lots of animes like Fullmetal
Alchemist and Ouran Host Club and stuff like that.
Lots of video games. Last year was Halo 5:
Guardians. A couple of other things. I like to
talk into mics for fun! Woo!
(applause)
TALIESIN: Hi, my name is Taliesin Jaffe.
(cheering)
TALIESIN: You don’t have to clap, but that was
nice. I play the human gunslinger Percival
Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo the
Third on Twitch on Thursdays. But other than that,
I also like to talk into microphones. You can hear
me in lots of animes, most recently Black Butler:
Book of Murder, which is coming out in a couple of
months. Black butlers.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: And lots of video games. Final Fantasy
IV, Street Fighter IV, World of Warcraft.
MARISHA: Hello, I am Marisha Ray. I play the
half-elven druid Keyleth on Critical Role. And I
also talk into microphones, like everybody else,
and like I am currently. In Metal Gear Phantom
Pain, Star Wars Battlefront. Just came out, Fire
Emblem: Fates, which half of us are in. You can
also watch Super Power Beat Down, which is a show
that I host, because I sometimes also talk into cameras.
(cheering)
LAURA: Hi, I’m Laura Bailey. Oh my gosh, I’m a
Gemini, which is actually kind of cool because I
am a twin on Critical Role as well.
I play the half-elven ranger Vex'ahlia and
I have a bear named Trinket.
MATT: (bear sounds)
LAURA: Thank you. Thank you, Trinket. I guess in
the last, what, the last year? Halo 5: Guardians.
Street Fighter 5. Avengers Assemble. Uncharted 4,
coming up.
(cheering, applause)
SAM: Hi. I'm Sam Riegel, I've lost my voice. My
sign is Libra. Very measured and even-keeled. I
play Scanlan Shorthalt, the bard gnome on Critical
Role. I also act in things sometimes and I don't
know what I’ve done. I did some Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles for a while. I was Spiderman in
Spiderman games. I was in Persona as the little
annoying Teddie. Other things too, I die in a lot
of games. Any game that Laura is killing things
in, I'm also dying in. I also started directing
stuff too. So I direct voices for animation and
for Disney. In fact I'm going to be directing Matt
Mercer tomorrow at 9:00AM.
MATT: Thanks for the reminder.
MARISHA: I love how they act like you were getting
called into the principal's office. Like ooh, snap!
MATT: At least my character voices aren't
high-pitched tomorrow.
LAURA: Mine are.
SAM: One of them's like Mickey Mouse range.
MATT: I was being ironic.
SAM: (high-pitched noise) That’s fun!
MATT: Hi, my name is Matthew Mercer. I'm Dungeon
Master. I'm a Cancer. That's not my sign, that's
my self-esteem. "I'm a cancer!" I also talk into
microphones for a living. Cartoons, video games.
Leon Kennedy in Resident Evil.
LAURA: Oh yeah, we were a pair.
MATT: Yeah! What's up? How's my hair look?
SAM: You both killed me, I'm sure. (zombie noise)
MATT: Recent-ish stuff, there's Fallout 4. I was
MacCready. Fire Emblem: Fates, which just came out
also. I was Ryoma as well as a few other
characters. Yeah, so that's our introduction...
and that's our panel. Thanks guys for coming!
(laughter)
MATT: Let's go ahead and kick this off with a
little bit of Q&A. If you're not sick of us by now
this weekend, let's see if we can make this happen
soon. You sir at the very front, go bring your
question to the microphone.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi guys. Apparently the mic's a
little hot still. I'll just stand right here. Hi
guys, Law Johnson, Facebook's Dungeons & Dragons
Memes, awesome to see you again. I hope you guys
are having a super fun time in Portland and thank
you on behalf of all Portland Critters for
bringing your magic to our weird city. (Grog
voice) I would like to ask a question.
(normal voice) I'm going to be that guy and-- right out
the gate-- start with a D&D question because my
fans will kill me if I don't. It has a little bit
to do with acting so that's something. In a
hypothetical scenario in which they make a Vox
Machina live-action movie, which professional
actor that was not yourself would you choose to
play your character?
MATT: That's a great question.
SAM: Arnold Schwarzenegger.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Dave Bautista!
TRAVIS: Dave Bautista would be Grog!
SAM: Dinklage, for me.
(cheering, applause)
MARISHA: We were toying around with Zooey
Deschanel for Keyleth?
(noises of agreement)
TALIESIN: We've had this conversation.
LAURA: Maybe like Kate Beckinsale or something.
MATT: Kate Beckinsale, yeah! I can see that.
MARISHA: She's hot.
TALIESIN: Is it Hugh Dancy from Hannibal who plays
Will Graham?
MATT: Who do you want for Vax?
SAM: Oh, what about Gilmore?
LAURA: Oh, oh! Somebody posted something on
Twitter and it was like, "Oh my god, he's
perfect". It was the guy who played Sayid on Lost.
MATT: Yeah! Oh, he'd be phenomenal.
LAURA: Or he'd be dreamy.
MATT: Or, also the guy who plays Oberyn on Game of
Thrones.
MARISHA: Ooh, yeah, I agree with that.
MATT: Man or woman, you had to agree, Oberyn had
it going on.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Awesome, thank you guys.
MATT: Good question, thank you.
(applause)
SAM: Oh, and Trinket would be played by the bear
from The Revenant.
(laughter)
MATT: I'm so glad that guy's getting work again.
SAM: Ah yes, go ahead.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: What is your favorite voice to
ever do when you do voice acting? Also, never have
Travis play a fighter attached with a rogue. It's
400 points of damage a round.
TRAVIS: You said numbers. I don't understand.
MATT: All right, so favorite voice you've ever
performed.
TRAVIS: Start that way this time.
SAM: No wait, that's you Matt, you start.
MATT: No no please, go ahead.
LAURA: Why does it feel like it's so early and
it's noon now?
TRAVIS: We're all going to give the answer like,
"It's like trying to pick between your children.
"You just can't have one favorite."
SAM: I did the voice of Starscream a couple times.
That was really fun and it was horrifyingly bad on
your vocal cords. It was fun to do. What about
you, Matt?
MATT: There's one project I can't talk about right
now but I'm really excited about.
TRAVIS: Do it anyway, violate your NDA!
MATT: No. I will say from a personality
standpoint, I really really personally enjoyed
Aloth in Pillars of Eternity. (Aloth voice) "Just
a sort of very slightly nervous elven wizard who
has an issue wherein his body actually contains
two souls and one happens to be this ancient woman
named Iselmyr who creeps out on occasion but not
really to--" (Iselmyr voice) “get really angry at
people! Shut up you fucking cocksmith!" (Aloth
voice) "I'm terribly sorry. That wasn't me. That
was Iselmyr. Please don't hit me."
TALIESIN: PCB let me Ed Wynn for a video game
once.
MARISHA: I love your Ed Wynn. It is so cool.
TALIESIN: I was like, "Can I do the Ed Wynn for
this game cause no one's ever going to play this
game?" They're like, "Yeah sure." (Ed Wynn voice)
So the entire game I get to play a villain who
talks like this. It's absolutely fantastic.
MARISHA: That's such a good Ed Wynn. I guess here
recently in Fire Emblem Fates (Effie voice) "I'm
Effie who's a bro'd out, testosterone-pumping,
giant sword-wielding chick. I’m really obsessed
with food all the time. So I got to do this all
the time and that was really great. She's really
great." What's actually been really fun is I have
somebody-- cause, you know, in those games you
tend to do two or three characters-- so I'm also
Oboro which is one of my Keyleth-y voice. and
someone was like, "Marisha, you were great in Fire
Emblem: Fates. Oboro is amazing. I don't know who
they got to do a voice for Effie, though." I was
like, "Hahaha!" and let it go.
LAURA: That's terrible! I would cry.
LAURA: Gosh I don't know. I think one of the most
fun times I ever had recording was for Shin-chan.
MARISHA: One of my personal favorites of yours.
LAURA: (Shin-chan voice) Thank you so much. Yeah,
cause I just talked like I had a potato in my
throat the whole time. Any shame I had was pretty
much left at the door. Travis, you didn't answer!
TRAVIS: Oh shit. (Gazlowe voice) I like playing
Gazlowe. He's this really high character and he's
a jerk so, you know. He talks like this!
MATT: Good question.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I wanted to know, on the day that
one of our beloved player characters happens to pass.
LAURA: No!
TRAVIS: You shut your mouth!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Whether due to heroism or, in
Vax's case, impatience. Just wondering, what were
your ideas for your next player character?
MARISHA: Like 80 people in the audience go...
"We've all thought about this."
TALIESIN: I don't want to spoil. I'm not going to
lie, I've got very complicated ideas about this.
TRAVIS: You do?!
TALIESIN: I've spent time thinking about what
I'm going to do when I finally fuck up.
MATT: It is interesting. There's an aspect of
surprising you guys with whatever character they
come up with. But whatever you feel like sharing.
You don't have to be specific, but you can be somewhat--
TALIESIN: I like your Blood Hunter class, that's
what I'll share.
MARISHA: I've thought about it. I've got a few
ideas. I have an idea for a bard that would be the
whole opposite of Scanlan. I don't want to reveal
it too much.
SAM: Well, I was going to come back as a druid
named Meyleth. It's going to be awesome.
LAURA: I was thinking I was going to come back as
a tiefling, but I don't know, Zahra is so freaking cool.
SAM: She’s not the only tiefling in the world.
LAURA: Yeah, I know, but they're supposed to be
rare, right? So I might change it. I really want
to be somebody with blue hair. I have ideas. A
were-bear with blue hair. That's going to be my name!
TRAVIS: I was going to come back as Helga the
human bar wench and try to die as fast as
possible. It's a horrible decision.
MATT: We'll have to get Kit to do the art for the
one ten minute period she actually plays in the
game. That's pretty funny, actually. I'll have to
kill you first. Hi, what you got?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So, Laura, if you want to play
someone with blue hair, you could always do a
water genasi. Also, go Geminis. My question is to
all of you, it's a D&D question. Vox Machina's
obviously made up of a lot of very diverse
personalities and people with very different ways
of looking about things, going about goals that
sometimes may not always exactly line up with each
other. So what are your guys' strategies--and
Matt, what are your strategies as a DM--for making
sure that all of your characters are still
working towards the same goal and keeping
things amicable while at the same time staying
true to your characters?
TALIESIN: We have a Fight Club on set. We can't
talk about it.
LAURA: I think that's one of the most fun things
about playing is that everybody has their own
moral code and we're trying to make that all mesh
together to the same goal. If we think, as our
character, that something's okay and Keyleth
definitely does not, then I think that's fine, to
see how that plays out and see why somebody would
have a problem with somebody else's actions.
MARISHA: Yeah, amicable is hard because we all do
have our personal goals that we're thinking of all
the time. And... being someone with a moral
compass is very difficult.
LAURA: Vex is a really good person! She's a really
good person. Don't you shake your head.
(laughter)
MARISHA: She's saying it for herself,
I'm pretty sure.
TALIESIN: We snicker about it backstage when we're
done. We're like, "Oh wow, that was intense."
MARISHA: We love it. It's hard to answer. Right
before the dragons, there was a moment where I was
like, "I don't know. I'm having a hard time
justifying Keyleth staying around." Because there
was a lot of animosity in the group. It's funny
how things can turn out like petty little
squabbles after the world is burning to the
ground.
MATT: Which plays into my answer as well. I don't
want to drive the players to a specific goal or
shoehorn them in. Let them play in their field. I
love inter-party conflict. For those who saw the
Percy-Grog standoff, I was mentally eating popcorn
the entire time.
(laughter)
MATT: It was awesome.
TALIESIN: I was so ready for that.
(laughter)
MATT: I love inter-party conflict, and I never
want to dissuade players from that. If characters
have to leave for a while from the game, that's
totally fine too. They can play a different
character for a while, and when they feel the
other character wants to return, they can. Or if
the other character ends up becoming an antagonist
to the party that's also a cool twist. I've had
that happen in previous games, where all of a
sudden, a player character got so fed up with the
party they left, and they came back six months
down the line as an antagonist to the party,
trying to stop them from making such poor
decisions in the future. Then they became a DM
controlled character, and the person was fighting
against their old character!
(laughter)
MATT: So, I love watching the dynamic happen and I
don't want to dissuade players from finding their
characters out and work with them to whatever the
ramifications of those discussions are.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I don't have a D&D question, I
have an acting question.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We were actually talking with
some other Critters last night about doing theater
and things and a while back I played Eddie in a
little show you might know as The Rocky Horror
Picture Show.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So, the weirdness that goes on
backstage at a Rocky Horror show--
MATT: Oh yeah.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Because it's just as weird
backstage as it is on stage. It got me thinking,
what's the weirdest, strangest, most out of left
field role, voice, or character that you guys have
ever played?
MATT: There was a time when Percy went to buy
black powder in Vasselheim.
(applause)
SAM: Uhh... I played Tiger Woods in a--
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Are you really about to admit to this?
SAM: ...In blackface.
(laughter/groaning)
SAM: Or brownface. In brownface.
TALIESIN: This is on the internet.
(laughter/groaning)
SAM: I rapped.
MATT: You might want to mention who produced
this.
SAM: Uhh... Will.I.Am produced it.
(laughter/groaning)
MATT: Oh my god. Tigga Hoods.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I have never actually heard you admit to
this before. I've watched it so many times.
(laughter)
SAM: That same year I played a Mexican man...
named Barrio. In a break-dancing movie called
Freak Dance, which you can also find online.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
(laughter)
SAM: Also in brownface.
(laughter/groaning)
SAM: Hey, it was... during a dark time.
MATT: I don’t know if we have a panel after that.
TALIESIN: We actually had a little bet going
because you're such a well of interesting YouTube.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Your YouTube well goes deep and I was
wondering how long it's going to take--
SAM: I mean, I was in my underwear singing about
IKEA.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: There's so much! There's so much!
MATT: Yeah, like, Critters found your Craig
Ferguson appearance. Yeah, you're all over the
place man.
SAM: I say yes to any job.
(laughter)
MATT: Laura what do you have?
LAURA: Oh man, I've got to keep thinking.
TALIESIN: I know, that's so dark.
MATT: Yeah, we're done. That's it, next question.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey guys.
MATT: Hello.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Most of you, I believe, have done
some really amazing work with Blizzard and I want
to thank you for that.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt knew this question was
coming because I told him about it last night,
(Scottish accent) but what's your favorite accent
to play?
MATT: (Scottish accent) You've already answered
mine.
(laughter)
MATT: Brogue is fantastic, I have yet to play a
dwarf in any sort of Blizzard franchise and it's
killing me.
(laughter)
MATT: I play orcs up and down the day, but they
haven't given me a dwarf yet.
TALIESIN: We let you do the Scottish accent for
one game.
MATT: (Scottish accent) Oh, that's right!
(normal voice) Yeah, for Akiba's Trip, which is a Japanese
game where you beat up vampires to make them
naked which kills them because the sun touches
their skin.
(laughter)
MATT: In the game you can unlock voices for NPCs.
You can set the voice mode for different NPCs.
Like, you go into a maid cafe, and this cute
little moe maid, and you can give her a
(Scottish accent) big tough Scottish voice.
(laughter)
MATT: (Scottish accent) "Would you like some tea
with that, lass? Oh, you look tense, how about a massage?"
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Scottish accent) Never change
Matt. Never change.
MATT: Haha, I don't have a choice.
(laughter)
SAM: Accents? I can't do accents.
MATT: There you go.
SAM: (terrible Boston accent) All my accents sound
like I'm from Boston.
(laughter)
SAM: (terrible Boston-accented mumbling)
MARISHA: It's like a John Waters film.
SAM: Everyone from Boston [inaudible]
(laughter/groaning)
MATT: Sam!
LAURA: I am never doing a panel with Sam Riegel
ever again. Ever.
SAM: I love you Boston. I'm just terrible at
accents. I've also done British a lot. Just
terribly badly.
(laughter)
LAURA: I don't even know.
MARISHA: I'm with Sam. American.
(laughter)
MARISHA: That's my favorite one.
TALIESIN: (West Country accent) I like West
Country. Any time you sound like a hobbit it's great.
MATT: I don't know. I think Marisha's Scottish is
pretty great.
(laughter)
MARISHA: (Swedish accent) Oh no!
MARISHA: (Swedish accent) Oh no, I'm from
Scotland.
LAURA: Is that Swedish?
MARISHA: (Swedish accent) Swedish? Yeah, Swedish.
MATT: Sorry. Travis?
TRAVIS: (Southern accent) I would like to be
Southern. A Southern son of a bitch.
(laughter)
MATT: Good question, thanks man.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello.
MATT: Hello.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First off, I would like to thank
you on behalf of everybody you inspired to start
playing D&D as a hobby.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question specifically
for Mr. Mercer up there.
MATT: All right.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So, I know the longsword or
whatever, Craven Edge, that you've given Grog has
very similar traits to a Black Blade build from
Pathfinder, so I was wondering if that was the
next class you were trying to introduce to 5th
Edition like with Percy's Gunslinger.
MATT: With Craven Edge, I really wanted to put an
intelligent weapon in the campaign, because that
hasn't happened before and they hadn't encountered
one. So that was a homebrew creation, Craven Edge.
I don't have a lot of time to work on homebrew
stuff, and the Bloodhunter took a lot out of me.
It was a very good learning experience and if time
allows I would like to do something more. I will
say I am currently working on a new Order for the
Bloodhunter. I guess I'll say it here, why not,
I'll be done soon. It's called the Order of Lycan
which specifies, essentially, a Bloodhunter Order
that accepts the curse of lycanthropy, and uses
their training and blood magic to control it.
(laughter)
MATT: Or a were-tiger, you choose whatever type
you want, it doesn't affect the Order so much.
LAURA: That is definitely going to be Travis's
next class.
(laughter)
MATT: It'll be a fun class, I'm working out the
dynamics of it. Essentially, they can go into the
were form for a short time. If they take damage
during the form they have to roll to see if they
go into a bloodlust rage next turn.
It's hard to control that form when you embrace
the curse, people. So anyway, that's a little
exclusive there for you.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey guys, I wanted to thank you
guys super quickly for coming out here to
Portland. It's great to see you guys.
(applause)
MATT: Thanks for having us.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So, I do have a question for all
of you. Do you guys play/watch the final product
you voice in, and if so, what is your experience
while watching or playing the game?
TRAVIS: Weird. It's always weird.
LAURA: It depends on the project really. Like, if
we play it or not. If I play it or not.
TALIESIN: I don't think I play anything I'm
specifically in, but sometimes I'm in things that I play.
MATT: Yeah, that's more the case.
TRAVIS: We suffer from the same thing that
everyone else does where we hear ourselves in a
project and we're like whoa, that sounds weird! I
don't know! You always want to go back and do it a
million times. Yeah, if it's a franchise we love,
we're definitely playing it and hating
the sound of our voice.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: We recognize everybody in it so it's
weird because you're like, "Oh yeah, there's--"
MARISHA:: Shut up, Steve Bloom.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: You're snarky in Battlefront. I
occasionally find myself going, "I know, Marisha."
(laughter)
MARISHA: They used like, all of my snarky lines
too. They just wanted "You should really be back
fighting with the rest of your team. Where are you
going? Oh, thanks, cool. Bye. You're such an asshole."
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Sam loves the sound of his own voice.
SAM: I do, I'm really good.
(laughter)
SAM: I watch a lot of stuff that I'm in and I'm
like, "Yeah, yeah, that's right. Spot on again, Riegel."
(laughter)
MATT: Yeah, the shut up light has been our running
joke for a long time. "Shut up, Travis. Shut up,
"Laura. Shut up, Troy."
MARISHA: "Shut up, Matt."
MATT: "Shut up, me."
(laughter)
SAM: Me and Travis, once or twice, played Call of
Duty online and it was super confusing.
(laughter)
SAM: Travis would be yelling "They're over
there!", and then I'd be like, "Wait, are they?"
(laughter)
SAM: He'd be like, "No, that was me in the game."
Liam would say something and
we would be like, "Wait, what?"
(laughter)
SAM: "Are you on my team or not?"
SAM: Very, very confusing.
(laughter)
MATT: Good question, thank you.
LAURA: When I was playing Fallout, I don't have
any companions except for my dog, because I don't
like people. Then I felt really guilty when I got
to you and was like, "Oh, shit, Matt, (sigh)." I
sent my dog home so that I could make you my
companion. The minute my dog left my side I was
like, "No, go away Matt!" I dismissed you and went
back to him.
(laughter)
MATT: It's totally fine, you would have gotten
really sick of me very early from going "(sigh),
do you need to carry all this junk?" Like, get
away Matt. Go home. Stay at the Red Rocket.
LAURA: The dog does not complain when you give him
so many weapons to hold.
MATT: No, but he does complain every time he gets
hit and you have to hear that (dog whimpering noise).
LAURA: I know.
LAURA: When he whines and you feel so bad, and
then you don't want to waste your stimpacks
because you know he'll heal really fast, and
you're watching your dog like--
MATT: That's why I couldn't do it. I don't care
about watching people getting murdered in the
middle of the wasteland, but that dog, I can't do
it.
LAURA: Then you're running around, and you get on
an elevator, and the dog looks at you like--
MATT: Well you mean it’s not as cool as any of
your weird companions going--
(laughter)
SAM: If you have a-- No, no, I'm sorry, you go.
MARISHA: No, no, I didn't mean to jump over top of
you. You go.
SAM: No, I--
MARISHA: No, please.
SAM: No, no.
MATT: Next question, what's up?
(laughter)
SAM: I was just going to say, we have five
minutes. We only have time for a couple more questions.
TRAVIS: We'll try and answer quickly. Lightning
round!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. That line is so long that
I've thought up about 10 million questions. Have
any of your characters in D&D held secrets from
the rest of the group?
ENTIRE PANEL: Yes!
MARISHA: All the time.
TALIESIN: They still do. Right now.
MARISHA: Right now, yes.
LAURA: I’m a dragon.
(laughter)
SAM: Secrets are the best. You ma'am.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I know I asked all of you
yesterday, but I'm really interesting in voice
acting, and you said theater, theater, theater.
Are there any good online resources? Either forums
you can do, or other resources?
MATT: A good website you can go to for an overall
view of the industry and getting into it is
iwanttobeavoiceactor.com, run by Dee Bradley
Baker, one of the most prolific
voice actors in the industry.
LAURA: He is amazing.
MATT: So that's a really good place to start.
There aren't that many people out there who can do
online workshops and classes with you. Just make
sure that anyone who's offering you a class, you
research their work and see that one: they're
reputable, two: they are working in the industry,
and three: that they're not charging way too
much.
LAURA: Because there are a lot of people who don't
actually work very much that will do classes and
you won't learn very much.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So what's a good portfolio to
look at to get examples from?
TRAVIS: Just a crap load of credits.
LAURA: Or you can look up voiceover agencies and a
lot of the agencies will have demo reels of their
actors that they represent, and then you can go on
and listen to what the demos should sound like,
but you'll want to send out to agencies in order
to--
SAM: Voicebank.net. That has everyone's reel that
you've ever heard. It has all their demo reels,
you just have to find them. And also, you can buy
Yuri Lowenthal and Tara Platt--
LAURA: I said that one yesterday.
SAM: What was it though?
MATT and LAURA: Voice Over Voice Actor.
LAURA: What It’s Like Behind the Mic, or
something?
TALIESIN: What It’s Like Behind the Mic, yeah.
It’s a great book. It’s really for right
where you are, mentally.
LAURA: Travis!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Book?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello!
PANEL: Hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I had a personal question for all
of you. There’s this thing that happens sometimes
when you’re an artist, where you have a lot of
self-doubt. When did you identify yourself as a
voice actor? Was there a moment? Is there a little
story or a snip or a time where you were like,
“Yeah, I think I just did it.”
MARISHA: You guys, I think I made it.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Yeah, that’s hard because we’re always
still working to keep going. You can’t ever stop
working. So none of us-- I don’t think any of us
are just like, “Yeah! We can stop now.”
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I don’t mean “You can stop,” or
“I’m done. I’ve hit the peak,” but the moment you
go from thinking of yourself as a squib to being
“I am actually an actor.”
TALIESIN: If I hit it, I’ll let you know.
(laughter)
MATT: I think the closest thing I can say is the
moment that I quit my day job, after saving up for
months to downsize to a tiny apartment and decide
that this was-- it’s now or never. Before I had
the regrets of never really trying. I’m going to
put all of my power and energy into this, and go
through the hardships. If it doesn’t work out, at
least I can live the rest of my life knowing that
I gave it a shot, as opposed to wondering what
could’ve been. And so, though it wasn’t--
(applause)
MATT: It wasn’t an easy time. And it was a very
prolonged piece of time of not getting peace and
time, but I think taking that big enough step to
go ahead and try for a passion like that was the
moment where I was like, “Now I’m an actor.
Because I’m poor.”
(laughter)
LAURA: Yeah. You have that moment of being able to
not have another job and just your acting job.
That’s when you go, “Okay. This is something I can
actually--”
TALIESIN: When you cut down all of your expenses
to the point of which, you’re like, “Okay. Now I can live.”
MARISHA: “Now I can survive.” Yeah. I found that,
as time goes on, and as I keep working, that I’m
having a harder and harder time just identifying
with any one thing. I can’t just call myself a
voice actor, because a lot of us, we’re directors,
writers, producers--
TALIESIN: Professional D&D players.
MARISHA: Professional D&D players. So I kind of
feel that saying voice acting-- and this goes for
any artists out there-- don’t adhere to it so much
that you end up limiting yourself in the long run,
because it can bleed into other areas.
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
MATT: Last question.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It’s not really a question, per
se. Matt, I finally brought your sword and a
Sierra League-looking scabbard. Do you mind if I
give it to you now?
MATT: Bring it!
LAURA: Give it!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Also, Laura. I have my
seven-year-old and my ten-year-old daughters. They
drew you a picture from Glitter Force.
LAURA: Oh my god!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was wondering if I could bring
that.
LAURA: Hi girls! I want to see what you drew!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Is it okay if I come up?
MATT: Approacheth. For those of you that didn’t
get your question answered, we’re going back to
our tables to sign this afternoon so just come by
and say hello and we can answer your questions there.
LAURA: I think we’re stopping at 2:30, and that’s
when we have to head to the airport.
SAM: So we’ll try to fly through everybody.
LAURA: Yeah, we’ll try to be fast.
(applause)
MARISHA: Oh snap! How are you going to get that on
the plane?
MATT: I don’t know.
LAURA: Aww, look at these glitter-tastic
pictures!
TALIESIN: Oh my god, it’s so cute!
LAURA: Glitter duckies!
(cheers, applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Travis and Marisha, you two share
that--
MARISHA: Do you want us to share that? Do you
think he’s going to share that with me?
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is a [inaudible]
LAURA: What!
MARISHA: Hey babe, we’re going to share this.
MATT: Thank you so much! Okay guys, thank you all
so much for coming to our panel, and for coming to
visit us here at Wizard World. We absolutely
appreciate the opportunity to meet all of you.
MARISHA: You guys are amazing!
(cheering)
MATT: We’ll see you on the show floor, and after
that, we’ll see you online guys.
(cheers, applause)